docs/tutorials/actions/search/example_mixed_precision_search_on_mase_graph.md, before:

# Example: Mixed-precision search on MASE Graph

This tutorial shows how to search for mixed-precision quantization strategy for Toy model on ToyTiny dataset.

## Train a Toy model on ToyTiny dataset

First we train a Toy model on ToyTiny dataset. After training for 20 epochs, we get a Toy model with around 0.997 validation accuracy. The checkpoint is saved at `mase_tools/toy_on_toy_tiny/software/training_ckpts/best.ckpt`


```bash
cd machop
./ch train --config configs/examples/search_toy_tpe.toml
```

## Search for mixed-precision quantization strategy

We load the trained Toy and search for fixed-point precision.

### Search Config

Here is the search part in `configs/examples/search_toy_tpe.toml` looks like the following.

```toml
[search.search_space]
# the search space name defined in mase
# this `name="graph/quantize/mixed_precision_ptq"` will create a mixed-precision post-training-quantization search space
name = "graph/quantize/mixed_precision_ptq"

[search.search_space.setup]
# the config for MixedPrecisionSearchSpace
# this `by="name"` will quantize the model by node/layer name when rebuilding the model
by = "name"

[search.search_space.seed.default.config]
# the default quantization config the node/layer
name = ["integer"]
data_in_width = [4, 8]
data_in_frac_width = [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
weight_width = [2, 4, 8]
weight_frac_width = [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
bias_width = [2, 4, 8]
bias_frac_width = [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]

[search.strategy]
# the search strategy name "optuna" specifies the search algorithm
name = "optuna"
sw_runner = "basic_evaluation" # sw_runner specifies the estimator for sw metrics
hw_runner = "average_bitwidth" # hw_runner specifies the estimator for hw metrics
eval_mode = true # set the model in eval mode since we are doing post-training quantization
data_loader = "val_dataloader"
num_samples = 256

[search.strategy.setup]
# the config for SearchStrategyOptuna
n_jobs = 1
n_trials = 20
timeout = 20000
sampler = "tpe"
# sum_scaled_metrics = true # single objective
# direction = "maximize"
sum_scaled_metrics = false # multi objective

[search.strategy.metrics]
# the sw + hw metrics to be evaluated
# since the loss is commented out, the search objective will not include this term
# loss.scale = 0.0
# loss.direction = "minimize"
accuracy.scale = 1.0
accuracy.direction = "maximize"
average_bitwidth.scale = 0.2
average_bitwidth.direction = "minimize"
```

### Run the search

Run the following command to start the search. We search for 20 trials and save the results in `mase_tools/toy_toy_tiny/software/search_results`.

```bash
./ch search --config configs/examples/search_toy_tpe.toml --load "../mase_output/toy_toy_tiny/software/training_ckpts/best.ckpt" --load-type pl
```

When the search is completed, we will see the Pareto frontier trials (`sum_scaled_metrics = false`) or the best trials (`sum_scaled_metrics = true`) printed in the terminal.

```text
[2023-09-06 15:54:24][chop.actions.search.strategies.optuna][INFO] Best trial(s):
Best trial(s):
|    |   number | software_metrics                   | hardware_metrics            | scaled_metrics                                 |
|----+----------+------------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------|
|  0 |        0 | {'loss': 0.668, 'accuracy': 0.668} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.038} | {'accuracy': 0.668, 'average_bitwidth': 0.408} |
|  1 |        4 | {'loss': 0.526, 'accuracy': 0.729} | {'average_bitwidth': 4.151} | {'accuracy': 0.729, 'average_bitwidth': 0.83}  |
|  2 |        5 | {'loss': 0.55, 'accuracy': 0.691}  | {'average_bitwidth': 2.113} | {'accuracy': 0.691, 'average_bitwidth': 0.423} |
|  3 |       10 | {'loss': 0.542, 'accuracy': 0.691} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.189} | {'accuracy': 0.691, 'average_bitwidth': 0.438} |
|  4 |       13 | {'loss': 0.556, 'accuracy': 0.681} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.075} | {'accuracy': 0.681, 'average_bitwidth': 0.415} |
|  5 |       19 | {'loss': 0.563, 'accuracy': 0.663} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.0}   | {'accuracy': 0.663, 'average_bitwidth': 0.4}   |
```

The entire searching log is saved in `mase_tools/mase_output/toy_toy_tiny/software/search_ckpts/log.json`.

Here is part of the `log.json`

```json
{
    "0":{
        "number":0,
        "values_0":0.5,
        "values_1":0.7849056604,
        "user_attrs_hardware_metrics":{
            "average_bitwidth":3.9245283019
        },
        "user_attrs_sampled_config":{
            "seq_blocks_0":{
                "config":{
                    "name":"integer",
                    "data_in_width":4,
                    "data_in_frac_width":4,
                    "weight_width":2,
                    "weight_frac_width":8,
                    "bias_width":2,
                    "bias_frac_width":8
                }
            },
            ...
        },
        "user_attrs_scaled_metrics":{
            "accuracy":0.5,
            "average_bitwidth":0.7849056604
        },
        "user_attrs_software_metrics":{
            "loss":0.6922941208,
            "accuracy":0.5
        },
        "state":"COMPLETE",
        "datetime_start":1694095030315,
        "datetime_complete":1694095031289,
        "duration":974
    },
    "1":{
        "number":1,
        "values_0":0.5747232437,
        "values_1":0.8150943396,
        "user_attrs_hardware_metrics":{
            "average_bitwidth":4.0754716981
        },
        "user_attrs_sampled_config":{
            "seq_blocks_0":{
                "config":{
                    "name":"integer",
                    "data_in_width":8,
                    "data_in_frac_width":3,
                    "weight_width":4,
                    "weight_frac_width":7,
                    "bias_width":4,
                    "bias_frac_width":3
                }
            },
            ...
        },
        "user_attrs_scaled_metrics":{
            "accuracy":0.5747232437,
            "average_bitwidth":0.8150943396
        },
        "user_attrs_software_metrics":{
            "loss":0.6845972538,
            "accuracy":0.5747232437
        },
        "state":"COMPLETE",
        "datetime_start":1694095031290,
        "datetime_complete":1694095032462,
        "duration":1172
    },
    "2":{
        "number":2,
        "values_0":0.5498154759,
        "values_1":0.8,
        "user_attrs_hardware_metrics":{
            "average_bitwidth":4.0
        },
        "user_attrs_sampled_config":{
            "seq_blocks_0":{
                "config":{
                    "name":"integer",
                    "data_in_width":4,
                    "data_in_frac_width":3,
                    "weight_width":2,
                    "weight_frac_width":4,
                    "bias_width":8,
                    "bias_frac_width":4
                }
            },
            ...
        },
        "user_attrs_scaled_metrics":{
            "accuracy":0.5498154759,
            "average_bitwidth":0.8
        },
        "user_attrs_software_metrics":{
            "loss":0.6868978143,
            "accuracy":0.5498154759
        },
        "state":"COMPLETE",
        "datetime_start":1694095032463,
        "datetime_complete":1694095033622,
        "duration":1159
    },
    ...
}
```

Commit message:

Update optuna search (#456)
* rename quantize -> quantization

* opt_quantized supports varied num_attention_heads

* search supports training

* connect to dse

* support num_samples in train

* update loggers in model wrapper

* add "ddp_find_unused_parameters_true"

* use a global visualizer (wandb/tensorboard)

* support utilization in runner

* fix bugs in resource util

* fix bugs

* update ai and objective

* add experiment scripts

* udpate script

* add comments

* add llama

* update scripts

* udpate runners

* add experiment toml

* update scripts & dummy fpgaconvnet

* update setup for cirrus

* add gradient accumulation to train runner

* udpate llama

* remove deepspeed from cli

* add jade scripts

* disable pruning pass

* compatible with mase-dse api

* update config groups

* rename files

* rename jade scripts

* update mase-dse

* log configs

* update search strategy base class

* remove head-dim-search space

* format files

* udpate packages

* uncomment pruning pass

* update readme.md

* restore unformatted yml

* restore unformatted yml

docs/tutorials/actions/search/example_mixed_precision_search_on_mase_graph.md, after:

# Example: Mixed-precision search on MASE Graph

This tutorial shows how to search for mixed-precision quantization strategy for Toy model on ToyTiny dataset.

## Train a Toy model on ToyTiny dataset

First we train a Toy model on ToyTiny dataset. After training for 5 epochs, we get a Toy model with around 0.997 validation accuracy. The checkpoint is saved at `mase_tools/toy_on_toy_tiny/software/training_ckpts/best.ckpt`


```bash
cd machop
./ch train --config configs/examples/search_toy_tpe.toml
```

## Search for mixed-precision quantization strategy

We load the trained Toy and search for fixed-point precision.

### Search Config

Here is the search part in `configs/examples/search_toy_tpe.toml` looks like the following.

```toml
[search.search_space]
# the search space name defined in mase
# this `name="graph/quantize/mixed_precision_ptq"` will create a mixed-precision post-training-quantization search space
name = "graph/quantize/mixed_precision_ptq"

[search.search_space.setup]
# the config for MixedPrecisionSearchSpace
# this `by="name"` will quantize the model by node/layer name when rebuilding the model
by = "name"

[search.search_space.seed.default.config]
# the default quantization config the node/layer
name = ["integer"]
data_in_width = [4, 8]
data_in_frac_width = [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
weight_width = [2, 4, 8]
weight_frac_width = [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
bias_width = [2, 4, 8]
bias_frac_width = [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]

[search.strategy]
# the search strategy name "optuna" specifies the search algorithm
name = "optuna"
eval_mode = true # set the model in eval mode since we are doing post-training quantization

[search.strategy.setup]
# the config for SearchStrategyOptuna
n_jobs = 1
n_trials = 20
timeout = 20000
sampler = "tpe"
# sum_scaled_metrics = true # single objective
# direction = "maximize"
sum_scaled_metrics = false # multi objective

# hw_runner specifies the estimator for hw metrics
[search.strategy.sw_runner.basic_evaluation]
data_loader = "val_dataloader"
num_samples = 512

# hw_runner specifies the estimator for hw metrics
[search.strategy.hw_runner.average_bitwidth]
compare_to = 32 # compare to FP32

[search.strategy.metrics]
# the sw + hw metrics to be evaluated
# since the loss is commented out, the search objective will not include this term
# loss.scale = 0.0
# loss.direction = "minimize"
accuracy.scale = 1.0
accuracy.direction = "maximize"
average_bitwidth.scale = 0.2
average_bitwidth.direction = "minimize"
```

### Run the search

Run the following command to start the search. We search for 20 trials and save the results in `mase_tools/toy_toy_tiny/software/search_results`.

```bash
./ch search --config configs/examples/search_toy_tpe.toml --load "../mase_output/toy_toy_tiny/software/training_ckpts/best.ckpt" --load-type pl
```

When the search is completed, we will see the Pareto frontier trials (`sum_scaled_metrics = false`) or the best trials (`sum_scaled_metrics = true`) printed in the terminal.

```text
[2023-09-06 15:54:24][chop.actions.search.strategies.optuna][INFO] Best trial(s):
Best trial(s):
|    |   number | software_metrics                   | hardware_metrics            | scaled_metrics                                 |
|----+----------+------------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------|
|  0 |        0 | {'loss': 0.668, 'accuracy': 0.668} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.038} | {'accuracy': 0.668, 'average_bitwidth': 0.408} |
|  1 |        4 | {'loss': 0.526, 'accuracy': 0.729} | {'average_bitwidth': 4.151} | {'accuracy': 0.729, 'average_bitwidth': 0.83}  |
|  2 |        5 | {'loss': 0.55, 'accuracy': 0.691}  | {'average_bitwidth': 2.113} | {'accuracy': 0.691, 'average_bitwidth': 0.423} |
|  3 |       10 | {'loss': 0.542, 'accuracy': 0.691} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.189} | {'accuracy': 0.691, 'average_bitwidth': 0.438} |
|  4 |       13 | {'loss': 0.556, 'accuracy': 0.681} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.075} | {'accuracy': 0.681, 'average_bitwidth': 0.415} |
|  5 |       19 | {'loss': 0.563, 'accuracy': 0.663} | {'average_bitwidth': 2.0}   | {'accuracy': 0.663, 'average_bitwidth': 0.4}   |

```

The entire searching log is saved in `mase_tools/mase_output/toy_toy_tiny/software/search_ckpts/log.json`.

Here is part of the `log.json`

```json
{
    "0":{
        "number":0,
        "values_0":0.5,
        "values_1":0.7849056604,
        "user_attrs_hardware_metrics":{
            "average_bitwidth":3.9245283019
        },
        "user_attrs_sampled_config":{
            "seq_blocks_0":{
                "config":{
                    "name":"integer",
                    "data_in_width":4,
                    "data_in_frac_width":4,
                    "weight_width":2,
                    "weight_frac_width":8,
                    "bias_width":2,
                    "bias_frac_width":8
                }
            },
            ...
        },
        "user_attrs_scaled_metrics":{
            "accuracy":0.5,
            "average_bitwidth":0.7849056604
        },
        "user_attrs_software_metrics":{
            "loss":0.6922941208,
            "accuracy":0.5
        },
        "state":"COMPLETE",
        "datetime_start":1694095030315,
        "datetime_complete":1694095031289,
        "duration":974
    },
    "1":{
        "number":1,
        "values_0":0.5747232437,
        "values_1":0.8150943396,
        "user_attrs_hardware_metrics":{
            "average_bitwidth":4.0754716981
        },
        "user_attrs_sampled_config":{
            "seq_blocks_0":{
                "config":{
                    "name":"integer",
                    "data_in_width":8,
                    "data_in_frac_width":3,
                    "weight_width":4,
                    "weight_frac_width":7,
                    "bias_width":4,
                    "bias_frac_width":3
                }
            },
            ...
        },
        "user_attrs_scaled_metrics":{
            "accuracy":0.5747232437,
            "average_bitwidth":0.8150943396
        },
        "user_attrs_software_metrics":{
            "loss":0.6845972538,
            "accuracy":0.5747232437
        },
        "state":"COMPLETE",
        "datetime_start":1694095031290,
        "datetime_complete":1694095032462,
        "duration":1172
    },
    "2":{
        "number":2,
        "values_0":0.5498154759,
        "values_1":0.8,
        "user_attrs_hardware_metrics":{
            "average_bitwidth":4.0
        },
        "user_attrs_sampled_config":{
            "seq_blocks_0":{
                "config":{
                    "name":"integer",
                    "data_in_width":4,
                    "data_in_frac_width":3,
                    "weight_width":2,
                    "weight_frac_width":4,
                    "bias_width":8,
                    "bias_frac_width":4
                }
            },
            ...
        },
        "user_attrs_scaled_metrics":{
            "accuracy":0.5498154759,
            "average_bitwidth":0.8
        },
        "user_attrs_software_metrics":{
            "loss":0.6868978143,
            "accuracy":0.5498154759
        },
        "state":"COMPLETE",
        "datetime_start":1694095032463,
        "datetime_complete":1694095033622,
        "duration":1159
    },
    ...
}
```
